add docs for authentication to CGR (#498)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/chainguard-images/authenticating.md

---

> title: "Authenticating to Chainguard Registry"

Reviewer: If we are planning on having more than one doc related to Chainguard Registry, I would recommend creating a `/registry` directory and have `authenticating.md` live within that

type: "article"
description: "A guide on authenticating to the Chainguard Registry to get images"
date: 2023-03-21T15:10:16+00:00
lastmod: 2023-03-21T15:10:16+00:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:

>     parent: "chainguard-images"

Author: TODO: make this registry after rebasing on https://github.com/chainguard-dev/edu/pull/503

weight: 500
toc: true
---

> 

Reviewer: Is there a short description of the Registry we can add at the top to help with context for the reader and help get the page found via search?

Author: Is this still needed after we have the new registry overview page?

> ### Public Images

Reviewer: If you're not planning on adding another higher-level heading later, I would make these all H2s for more semantic HTML layout

```suggestion
## Public Images
```

All public Chainguard Images are available for free.

> However, logging in with a Chainguard account and authenticating when pulling from the registry can provide a mechanism for Chainguard to contact you if there are any issues with images you are pulling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, logging in with a Chainguard account and authenticating when pulling from the registry provides a mechanism for Chainguard to contact you if there are any issues with images you are pulling.
```

> This may include upcoming deprecations or changes in behavior, or critical vulnerabilities found and remediations applied to images being pulled.

Reviewer 2: I don't love the cadence of this sentence but I'm not awake enough to wordsmith it yet.

> ### Authenticating with the credential helper

Reviewer: Title case for consistency, maybe add `chainctl` in here too?

```suggestion
## Authenticating with the `chainctl` Credential Helper
```

The easiest way to configure authentication is to use the credential helper included with `chainctl`.

First install `chainctl`, then log in and configure the credential helper:

```

> chainctl auth login

Reviewer 3: You don't need this to run `configure-docker`

> First [install `chainctl`](../..//chainguard-enforce/how-to-install-chainctl/), and configure the credential helper:

Reviewer: You can use the full path rather than relative here

```suggestion
First [install `chainctl`](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/how-to-install-chainctl/), and configure the credential helper:
```

> ```

Reviewer: I would use bash or sh with backticks to use our syntax highlighting

```suggestion
```sh
```

chainctl auth configure-docker
```

> This will update your Docker config file to call `chainctl` when an auth token is needed. A browser window will open when the token needs to be refreshed.

Author: https://github.com/chainguard-dev/mono/pull/9208

Pulls authenticated in this way are associated with your user.

> ### Authenticating with a Pull Token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authenticating with a Pull Token
```

### Authenticating with a Pull Token

You can also create a "pull token" using `chainctl`.

First install `chainctl`, then log in and configure a pull token:

```

> chainctl auth login

Author: Just tested, login isn't required. It prompts to login when you go through group selection.

> chainctl auth configure-docker --pull-token

Reviewer 3: Perhaps explicitly include the `--ttl` flag, so it is very in your face that this is a time-bombed credential?

> First [install `chainctl`](../..//chainguard-enforce/how-to-install-chainctl/), then log in and configure a pull token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First [install `chainctl`](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/how-to-install-chainctl/), then log in and configure a pull token:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

This will update your Docker config file with a long-lived username and password. This token expires in 30 days by default, which can be shortened using the `--ttl` flag (for example, `--ttl=24h`).

The token can be copied to other locations such as CI jobs or Kubernetes secrets.

Pulls authenticated in this way are associated with a Chainguard identity, which is associated with the group selected when the pull token was created.

> ### Authenticating with GitHub Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authenticating with GitHub Actions
```

You can configure authentication with OIDC-aware CI platforms like GitHub Actions.

First create an identity using `chainctl`, which can be limited to only allow OIDC federation from certain GitHub workflow runs:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

chainctl auth identity create github [GITHUB-IDENTITY] \
  --github-repo=${GITHUB_ORG}/${GITHUB_REPO} \
  --github-ref=refs/heads/main \
  --role=registry.pull
```

> This creates a Chainguard identity that can be assumed by a GitHub Actions workflow only for the specified GitHub repository, triggered on pushes to the specified branch (e.g., `refs/heads/main`), with permissions only to pull from the Chainguard Registry.

Reviewer: I would avoid the "e.g." just to be clearer / more inclusive

```suggestion
This creates a Chainguard identity that can be assumed by a GitHub Actions workflow only for the specified GitHub repository, triggered on pushes to the specified branch (such as `refs/heads/main`), with permissions only to pull from the Chainguard Registry.
```

When this identity is created, its ID will be displayed. Using this ID, you can configure your GitHub Actions workflow to install `chainctl` and assume this identity when the workflow runs:

> ```

Reviewer 3: yaml
